=pod

=head1 Description

This is a collection of scripts used to manipulate audio files.

=head1 Scripts

=head2 C<convert.pl>

This script is used to batch-convert folders with audio files
to MP3 files.

It uses the B<lame MP3 encoder> to create the mp3 files from sources,
and optionally can use the B<FLAC encoder> to decode C<.flac> files
before converting, as well as the B<Sound eXchange audio editor> 
to apply fade-in/fade-out and trim the files.


=head1 Related binaries

The scripts rely on a few external binaries, listed below.

=over

=item Lame MP3

This is the MP3 encoder, a command-line application. 
The latest version can be compiled from source, which can be retrieved here:

L<http://lame.sourceforge.net/download.php>

For Windows users, the pre-compiled binary can be downloaded from here:

L<http://www.free-codecs.com/download/lame_encoder.htm>

In order to be able to read tags from the C<.mp3> files, you need
the C<MP3::Info> package installed from CPAN.

=item MonkeyAudio encoder

I<Optional>

This command-line binary can be used to convert ape files to wav files, 
which can be then used as a source by the lame encoder to create 
the MP3 files.

The source code and the pre-compiled window application can be downloaded here:

L<http://www.monkeysaudio.com/download.html>

In order to be able to read tags from the C<.ape> files, you need
the L<http://search.cpan.org/~daniel/Audio-Musepack-0.7/lib/Audio/APE.pm Audio::APE>
package installed from CPAN. This is a pure Perl package that can be unpacked
by hand in the windows Activestate version, even if it does not show in the
active repository.


=item FLAC encoder

I<Optional>

This command-line binary can be used to convert flac files to wav files, which 
can be then used as a source by the lame encoder to create the MP3 files.

The source code and the pre-compiled binaries for all platforms
can be downloaded here:

L<http://flac.sourceforge.net/download.html>

In order to be able to read tags from the C<.flac> files, you need
the L<http://search.cpan.org/~daniel/Audio-FLAC-Header-2.4/Header.pm Audio::FLAC::Header>
package installed from CPAN.


=item Sound eXchange audio editor

I<Optional>

This command-line audio editor can be used in the conversion process
to apply fade-in and fade-out for each track.

The source code and the pre-compiled binaries for all platforms
can be downloaded here:

L<http://sox.sourceforge.net/>

=back


B<Usage>

You can call this script as described below. 
If there are spaces in the folder name, you need to quote the path.

 convert.pl /my/source/folder /target/folder preset=... tags=... fade=...

If you are not providing an encoding type, the script will 
use by default "lame --preset fast standard" on all the files in the path.

=cut